Why Short Stories Are Best for English Learning
Short stories are amazing resources for any English learner. That’s because:

You get more time to focus on individual words. When a text is short, you can spend more time learning how every single word is used and what importance it has in the piece.
You can read a whole story in one sitting. Attention spans are very important for learning, and the ability to finish a story gives you more time to understand it. Short stories are designed to give you maximum information with minimal effort.
It is best for consistency. It is far easier to read one story every day than trying to read a big novel that never seems to end.
You can share them easily in a group. Since short stories can be read in a single sitting, they are ideal for book clubs and learning circles. Most of the time these groups do not work because members have no time to read. Short stories are the perfect solution.
You can focus more on ideas and concepts. Language is less about words and more about the meaning behind them. If you spend all your time learning vocabulary and grammar, you will never be able to fluently speak a language because you will have little to talk about. These short stories give you the opportunity to understand big ideas in context.
You can choose almost any short story and get something useful out of it. Each story has its own special features that you can appreciate.

The best kind of story will be one that is interesting, has a strong message and, of course, helps you to both practice and learn English. It will be one that leaves an impact, both in your English education and in your imagination.

Short stories are also a great resource for English learners because they allow you to work on reading, speaking and listening at the same time. In our fantastic digital age, it is possible to find wonderful short stories online in video form. If you find a video that includes English-language subtitles, you can read while also listening to how a native speaker pronounces words.

If you’re looking for short stories in video form, why not check out FluentU?

FluentU takes authentic videos—like music videos, movie trailers, news and inspiring talks—and turns them into personalized language learning lessons.

You can try FluentU for free for 2 weeks. Click here to check out the website or download the iOS app or Android app.